>> Steve Kinney: To kind of
understand this a little better and
see how it's not black magic,
what we're going to do is we're gonna
write a slightly too simple
version of this observable, right?
And the versions in MobX
are a little bit more complicated,
cuz we're not dealing with computed or
dependencies along this way, but
we'll see it kind of in a very simple
version with a do-it-yourself observable.
>> Steve Kinney: So here,
we have just an observable value where we
could say get and set, right?
We saw it on that string earlier,
and we'll see
how that actually works with objects and
why we didn't have to deal with objects,
hint to hint computed properties,
but we'll see that in a second.
But we have this get and set, and
so that we have an observable.
Now, yes, the one in MobX is a lot
more complicated than this one.
But, it's a pretty good representation.
So we could say,
>> Steve Kinney: And we get back
this object with a get and a set.
So this is now a string.
And so, I could say x.get,
>> Steve Kinney: And
we'll get the string back, right?
Just as we saw with just the regular
string before, with MobX.
But you'll notice that
whenever I set the value,
I am going to just trigger this onChange,
which is just effectively a console log.
So I could say x.set,
>> Steve Kinney: And, oops.
[SOUND] call that newValue,
>> Steve Kinney: x.set.
You can say, the newValue is World,
the oldValue was Hello.
Now, yeah, I'm console logging.
What's effectively happening under
the hood is MobX is able to tell autorun,
the world has changed.
And, it's able to do really smart things
of figuring out exactly the bare minimum
that has changed about it,
which makes it a lot easier.
But basically, what we're able to do
is events to register ourselves with,
I have changed,
I can tell everyone when I have changed.
We've seen it.
We can automatically render UI without
any special framework with these really
powerful patterns.
All right.
So let's dig in a little bit deeper.
So this is our very simple
version from before.
This is not an official
observable implementation, right?
This is just a way to kind of like
demonstrate it in a way that we can grasp
in one sitting.
This code right here,
with all the decorators,
I told you earlier that you don't
necessarily need to use not
standardized JavaScript features like
decorators if you wanna do this.
This is effective.
And if you wanna write this in ES5,
you could write it such, right?
extendObservable.
We can actually even write an overly
simple version of extendObservable as well
if we really wanted to.
But extendObservable seems to take
the current instance object along with
an object of what things you wanna watch
and what they currently are, right?
So firstName and lastName, and then the
actual firstName and lastName as they are.
And, extendObservable,
basically use setters and getters here.
You remember how before
when we had the string?
We had to use set and get, and
when we made that fake observable before,
it had set and get?
But you notice that when we have
the person that was changing the page,
I didn't have to do any of that, because
it's using those computed properties.
It's using the get that we saw very early
on when we started talking about this that
made us abide by the universal access
principle, and set is the same thing,
but for assigning value.
So now, whenever you try to just call it,
like, person.firstName or person.lastName,
it's actually gonna call the get method,
which is hooked into MobX,
which will do everything.
When you call set, it will do that
thing we saw with the console log.
Right?
So we're effectively,
even for our objects,
we are still calling get and set.
But because we have these computed
properties on the classes and objects with
that object of defineProperty,
we don't have to notice it, right?
We get to have a nice API for
dealing with these things.
But if effectively, we are calling these
every single time someone assigns or
gets one of these values.
>> Steve Kinney: And so then, the
decorator where you saw just @observable,
is effectively just this.
It takes the current instance object and
all of the properties that you
called observable, and
it just adds them onto [INAUDIBLE].